---
title: "Learning Python Day 1"
layout: git-wiki-post
---

<!-- TODO -->
# Python - Day 1!

Hi, I want to start blogging my journey of delving into the abyss of coding. Actually, I've started writing code much earlier - with `bash` and a multitude of `Unix` commands, e.g. `sed` and `grep`. Along with `dmenu`, those tools helped me feel at home with my `Linux` OS and achieve tasks I had to take care of - let alone making it visually and aesthetically pleasant.

As for `Python`, I'd been hesitant to start learning it for several reasons. Firstly, I did not feel that much confident to try and pick up another language besides `bash`. Despite using `Linux` for over 6 years now, I'd mostly employed it as an alternative to `Windows` which comes free and doesn't bother me with updates and malware. I learned about `Linux` and its `bash` shell gradually - by encountering various problems and trying to solve them on my own. It's been only in recent months that this knowledge accumulated, reached a critical mass and pushed me to start writing scripts for making my life **MUCH** easier. And I really mean a lot of scripts - I even made a script for easily writing scripts. So, I felt that I *can* and *want* to do more with my computer. Secondly, for some reason I had this preconception of `Python` as a very slow language (don't ask me how I got it). I thought that if I wanted to learn a programming language I had to pick wisely - so I can stick with one and see it through. After reading and learning more about `Python`, and, especially, its application in data sciences, web crawling, and social sciences, I realized that `Python` might be a compromise, but it is still the best option for me. 

So I started. Actually, I started a week ago - with a concise, but terrific book - [Python for Social Sciences](). It helped me to understand many use cases of `Python` and programming in general for non-IT professions. The book doesn't give you a thorough explanation or a guide for every step of the process - but it gives you the outline of a research project aligned with modern software. After finishing it, I tinkered for several days with my code sketches, APIs, and web crawling. Of course, I will not talk about any concrete projects at this stage here, but I will try to post about most important findings, tips etc. I think, this is a better format for me to keep "notes" as well compared to making thousands of new 'TIL's in my other repository.

So... With that short intro, let us begin. I pulled out a `Python 3.10` documentation here. Let's see what deserves our attention:

1. `Pass` statements:

I want to make a habit of using `pass` statements as placeholders for any code outlines. I've seen it once, but didn't really know why the author left those `pass`es lying around. 

2. `Match` statements:

The documentation gives us a use case, which is awfully similar to the `case` statement in `bash` for me:

```
def http_error(status):
    match status:
        case 400:
            return "Bad request"
        case 404:
            return "Not found"
        case 418:
            return "I'm a teapot"
        case _:
            return "Something's wrong with the internet"
```
3. Running `shell` commands in `Python`:

A full guide on running `shell` read easily can be found [here](https://janakiev.com/blog/python-shell-commands/). The easiest way (which requires `Python=>3.5`) is using the `subprocess.run()` function:

```
process = subprocess.run(['echo', 'Even more output'], 
                         stdout=subprocess.PIPE, 
                         universal_newlines=True)
process
```
Which gives the following object:

```
CompletedProcess(args=['echo', 'Even more output'], returncode=0, stdout='Even more output\n')

```

Another option is using the `sh` library:
```
from sh import ifconfig
print(ifconfig("wlan0")) 
```
